Hi guys.
In this video I would like to talk about keyboard shortcut now.
In general the main idea is to save you time of not using the mouse because the more more web development
with HDMI hours is so javascript you're going to do.
You'll notice that instead of reaching for the mouse each and every time you need to do something.
If you're going to use a keyboard that we're going to save you a lot of time in along.
Now I have to warn you right off the bat that in the beginning they might seem like a hassle so you
might be like well this does not make sense.
I can just use the mouse and you can but I would suggest incorporating them one by one.
Let's say I learned one of them and then every time you needed to start using it.
And then eventually pick it up more and more and you'll see how your workflow is going to improve dramatically.
Now first and foremost where we can get all of them.
So if you'd like to know all your keyboard shortcuts in a visual studio called where you can find them.
Well you need to open the Visual Studio code in new time.
Then we're gonna get the welcome screen and notice here we have principal keyboard teacher.
And this is where we're looking for a keyboard shortcut.
Now what's going to happen the moment you open open up.
These are gonna be your shortcuts.
Now nobody's expecting you to remember all of them.
Obviously it's impossible especially like first day and I wouldn't suggest memorizing them from for
some kind of reason.
Instead I like I said I would suggest incorporating the most interesting ones.
And then one by one pick it up more and more.
Now what I'm gonna show you is just a few of the ones that I'm using may be the ones that I kind of
feel.
Most important ones I don't know it's really up to you.
You will see again.
You want to use them.
Great.
You don't want to use them.
It's also fine.
It's really up to you.
Now whenever I'm gonna be talking about the option key I also can mentioned that this probably would
be all.
I'm pretty sure because as I'm looking right now at my mac keyboard it says option but I'm quite certain
that it would also me not.
And also I'd like to mention that whenever I'm gonna say command in most cases on the windows this is
gonna mean control.
Again I cannot guarantee either but in most cases I'm quite certain that this is gonna be the case.
Now let's start with the most basic one which in fact probably has nothing to do with Visual Studio
code but you can still use it here and that is command Zi which is for undoing stuff.
So let's say I'm going to write something someone said there's gonna be a hearing One and heading one
is going to be the world.
Now I'm going to copy and paste the line which we're going to learn later.
And you know what.
At some point I'm going to decide that I don't need this line so I'm gonna delete this line.
Now what would happen if I would change my mind again and if I would want to get a line.
No actually I can create a new one.
But the fastest way option would be pressing commands.
And it pretty much undo is everything that I did last.
Now again we also have an options of command C for copying and command plus V or pacing.
So also those would be the basic ones.
And if you want to check some commands let's say for editing as you can see you have the undo and the
shortcut would be command Z and we have redo again that would be shift command plus the.
And then I have copy cut copy and paste.
So again those would be very basic ones.
However even though they seem basic trust me Andrew is gonna save you a lot of times whenever you make
some kind of mess.
Now very interesting one would be creating multiple cursors.
So let's say that I have some kind of I don't know text and let me copy and paste more lines and if
I would decide that you know what not only I want to change hello world help people on one line but
let's say in all six of them here.
Now what we can do is we can hold the option key or hold.
And then as we're holding it then start pressing on the different lines.
So notice I would like to place the cursor cursor here.
I'd like to place a cursor here as well as I would like to place the cursor right here.
So now my cursor instead of one line is on six lines.
So what I can do right now is I can just delete the world and then just type whatever I would like.
As you can see this saves me a time of jumping from one line to another one and then adding hello people
hello people hello people again that shortcut would be holding the option plus kick clicking whenever
you like to place the cursor obviously in this case I would like to place my cursors where I have the
end of the word but in general again you can place them anywhere you would like.
Now also let's look at how we can select the whole line as that will be our next.
So let's say if I would like to select that or not the second line.
Now of course I can use the mouse and I can do something like this or has we're navigating I could just
press command and plus I notice right away I have my line selected.
So if I would like to delete it I can just delete the line select another one.
OK.
Sure enough select another one.
Select the last one we just move the cursor down as well as just deleting the line.
And now case we're not touching the mouse at all once we know how to select the one.
We can also look at how we can navigate meaning move where the words start or end.
So let's say that we are in the beginning of the line and we would like to move to the end of people.
Now lastly we have an option of just moving the cursor or clicking it with the mouse.
However we have also an option of holding the option key and then as we're holding the option key we
can move either to the right or to the left.
Notice what happens.
Now I'm moving with the word not with just one move the cursor or with the actual mouse.
So again this is gonna save you a lot of time.
Whenever you have big line but you would like to move with the words not with actual cursors and stuff
like that.
Now also we have an option of right away moving from the end of the line to the beginning and going.
So if I'm gonna press command and again cursor left or right.
NORRIS Now moving from the one side of the line to the other side of light.
Now also I can move up and down the whole document.
So if I'm going to press command up as you can see right now we're on top of the document.
And if I'm gonna press command and down now we're gonna be in the bottom of the document also very interesting
is command and D which gets the same selection.
So let's say not only we're going to have we having one as a to second having one but we're going to
have let's say heading to a low world and then again let's copy and paste a line let's maybe change
this to allow people people.
But in this case I would like to change the ending one again back to having one.
I'm sorry heading to back to having one.
Now what would happen if I would like to select all the heading ones in this case.
Again not the heading to it and being in the middle that has the whole world but only the heading ones.
Well I have an option.
As you notice as I'm hovering right now with my cursor over the heading One if I'm gonna press Amanda
then I'm gonna select what I would like to start selecting and if I'm going to keep on pressing command
D then I'm selecting the second one.
So now I have two heading ones that I have the third one and then I have the fourth one.
So in this case if I would like to change this to let's say heading for I can just change on all of
them.
And again this is really powerful when you have 15 of them or something like that and really gonna save
you time.
Now also we have an option of copying pasting the same line.
Now this keyboard shortcut for that would be shift option and down key.
So if I'm keyboard now.
So if I'm gonna press shift option and then eyeball down check this out.
So if I have a second line third one fourth one and this is basically how we can do that now we can
also have an option of moving the actual line up or down.
So let me just navigate to the bottom here then let's start in New Line and let's say that this is gonna
be having sex so I'm Erin 6 so something like this.
Well let's say that I would like to move again.
They're setting six somewhere here in the middle.
Let's say the third line or something like that.
Now obviously we have an option we can maybe select a line we can cut it out.
We can go over here and copy and paste.
That is always an option.
However we have a faster way we can hold the option key and then just press keyboard up or down.
NORRIS Now I'm just moving this heading six up or down as much as I would want to.
I want to move it out.
You can move it out.
You want to move it here in the comments.
We can move it in the comments.
This is really powerful and you will gonna use this a lot.
Once you are going to start using the keyboard shortcut also we have an option of creating the comments.
I think we already covered this though.
Remember when I said that we can always use the command and forward slash and this is gonna create us
to comment.
So if you would like to write some gibberish over here.
Sure enough you can go ahead and do that.
Now let me select a line and let's just delete the line without a touch of the mouse.
Also if you'd like to start a new line somewhere in the middle let's say that I'm navigating somewhere
here and I'm at the end of the hello.
However I would like to start a new line.
Now one of the options would be again we can move with the command press or turn or enter and we're
going to start new line.
However there is a faster way.
Let me do this first of all let me again navigate somewhere in the middle.
And if we're gonna press command plus enter and MySQL.
So you need to hold the command.
Then we're gonna start right away in your line.
So again we wouldn't have to navigate to the end of line.
Now there is also an option of changing the shortcut.
So if we're going to hold command K plus then we're gonna press first time command Okay then we're gonna
press command s this is gonna open us the shortcut and we can obviously change them.
So if you'd like to change how the shortcut would be entered you can obviously do it over here.
And as you can see this would basically tell you what the shortcut is doing.
And you can change these keys.
So this would be insured about the shortcut and I would suggest at least starting one by one using them
because they will gonna save you a lot of time in the long run.